Purchase a Sailor Hat ESP32 board with the accessories required to build the HAT Labs NMEA-USB gateway.
https://docs.hatlabs.fi/sh-esp32/pages/tutorials/nmea2000-gateway/
Purchase a Honeywell position sensor. I used the 100 degree but in retrospect I would use the 180 degree sensor.
https://prod-edam.honeywell.com/content/dam/honeywell-edam/sps/siot/en-us/products/sensors/motion-position-sensors/magnetic-position-sensors/smart-position-sensors-arc/documents/sps-siot-smart-position-sensor-100-180degrees-arc-product-sheet-000732-3-en-ciid-142139.pdf
Purchase components needed to build the voltage divider as per RandelO's instructions. Note that RandelO used an external ADC while I used one of the ADCs available on the ESP32.
Purchase a second ESP32 devkit, for the primary bus, as well as a CAN bus controller. I prefer WaveShare: https://www.waveshare.com/sn65hvd230-can-board.htm
My Honeywell sensor runs at 12V so I don't need a voltage regulator. I connected the analog output from the sensor to pin 36 on the Sailor Hat header.
Flash the src-wind code onto the Sailor HAT ESP32 and test. As you rotate the mast, you should see the "Sens" values change on the display. The display shows the low, current, and high values for the ADC. You may need to adjust the values of "lowset" and "highset" in windparse.cpp to reflect the actual low and high values observed on your boat.
Connect the second ESP32 to the SH using pins 18 and 19 (TX<>RX). Flash the src-main code onto this ESP32. Now you have a couple of choices. If you followed the HAT Labs tutorial (which I highly recommend) then you probably have SignalK running somewhere (like the computer you're using to flash the code) and you can configure the USB port on the computer as a SignalK data source, and see your corrected wind data. But if you don't have SignalK running, you can uncomment this line in main-bus.cpp:
  //nmea2000->SetForwardType(tNMEA2000::fwdt_Text); // Show bus data in clear text
This will send parsed NMEA packets to the "forward stream" which is your serial/USB port, but in human-readable format (instead of Actisense format) so you can read the data on a serial monitor.
On the boat, you may or may not have either ESP32 connected to a computer with a USB cable, which provides 5V power. If you're not going to leave it connected to USB, the SH-ESP32 will get power from the N2K bus (it has a voltage regulator), and you can connect the second ESP32 to the 3V power pins on the SH-ESP32.
I am powering everything from the N2K bus (at 12V) on my boat, so it's not necessary to have any other devices supplying USB power. The N2K bus provides power for the SH-ESP32 (which in turn provides power to the second ESP32 as above), and it also powers the Honeywell sensor, the secondary (wind) N2K bus, and the GND10 (which itself powers the Nexus wind transducer).
I used a 4-pin M12 connector for the Honeywell sensor just because for some reason a 3-pin connector was not readily available. But you only need 3 wires: +12V, ground, and output. Since the N2K connectors are 5-pin M12, it's easy to get the wiring correct.
You will probably need some N2K tee connectors and extra terminators, since you're connecting an additional N2K network (albeit one with only 2 devices: SH-ESP32 and GND10).